---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---


The class is almost over, this week in general learned a lot of useful tool in both SQL and Python.

SQl I learned more fuction on subquery: by using the keyword select, we can find the sub set of data and attributes according to our constraints. This makes me ponder how to effectively use all the different joins and keywords in SQL to manipulate data. There is a lot of details professor has not covered due to the limitation of time. I need to keep reviewing the concepts of SQL since the final exam is a week a way.

Wednesday was a guest lecture from Atlassian, they introduced their product HipChat, another competitive team chat to Slack(which is the current one we are using for our group project). I think the most valuable things I got out from their lecture was the standard procedure of the whole develop process. They called it "iteration", a complete route from defining a product's general requirement and the things need to be accomplishedd and to decide who in the team will take the task and they evaluate afterward with quality assurance check. Many terms I am still not familiar with, but I really enjoyed their sharing because that's exactly I'm going through with my teammates as we trying to make this group project ideal by discussing our tasks and responsibilities, goal settings, bugs and features that need to be implemented. I really apprecaite their effort to demonstrate the professional ways of doing softward development.

tip of the week: pixlr.com is a great online photo edit tool for any filter, resize even crop. As a frontend developer, my partnar and I try to find the most elegant pictures to present to our visitors, oftenly I used this useful tool to make a quit edit on my photos before I upload them to our site. The GUI is user friendly and intuitive.
