---
layout: post
title: Week 1 
---
Programming is sophisticated and elegant. That is how the course CS373 appeals to me the very first week. I heard a lot about the instructor, Dr. Glenn Downing. Most students have told me to take his course but they never included any explanations. Simply saying "His class is awesome, just take it". Well, I put my faith in my peers' statements and registered the course. After this week, I can say Professor is Downing is awesome. 

The first class was interactive and fast paced, Dr. Downing called us by name and interacted with called students in a friendly way, he would present lines of codes and randomly calls a student then by way of asking question on a particular line of statement or concept, parenthetically indoctrinate the rest of us with profound programming technique or syntax information. I really like this approach, it makes me engaged in the lecture, no more passive listening but need to be actively participate the conversation professor's current conversation with other students. First thing that amazed me was Python language, prior of the course I only learned JAVA and a little of C for my computer architecture class. Python here was introduced for this class, my thought of Python from the sample codes professor showed us was "wow, this language is very intuitive and dynamic, what a high level language it is!". Quickly I noticed Python really cares about indentation especilly how you tab or space between each fuction and keywords, it forces any Python programmer to write neatly and correctly in order for codes to run successfully. 

Not after a while Professor introduced Java Script the other useful language which I will need to utilize for later projects. Java Script is interesting as well, very close related to Java but with some elegance in its part. The class feature is different in Java Script, instead you every object is linked to a prototype object which it can inherit properties. Very cool feature that I think will be very effect to design a particular system for a web page that allows programmers to design their codes with great flexibility. 

After the weekly lectures, the first project surely become my first task to get a hang of what I have learned. The project asks us to implement a method to solve a particular math problem the "Collatz Conjecture" so called 3N+1 problem. The language to finish the assignment is Python. In addition we have to utilitze git and Travis CI as common developers' tools to aid our effort. I must say git was an interesting "thing" like Python, I had never used git on my computer before now I knew a little about what that is, I always thought it is just a game or some trivial things programmers talked about "Have you tried git yet?" Nope was my answer, but for this assignment as an introduction of this class. I have tasted the beauty of this git just a surface. In order to accomplish the project, one has to acquire an private repository from github then by linking to your local maching as you edit your codes, you can alway "commit" and "push" it by using git in your terminal. Simply say, you update your codes over git's server with your description of what you did in that update. The best thing is git saves all the changes and one benefit I see in this funtion is to share code with other programmers and each programm is in charge of a portion, so they do not have to put their code in a USB drive meet up at StarBucks with others then exchange codes thereafter edit codes later. Git has made coding efficiently. 

The project itself was quite interesting, basically for the math problem, you supposedly write it with a simple solution, but the funny thing was most of the time I spent was to figure how to write code in Python, the algorithm for the proglem I had a few conspicuous thoughts to accomplish it, but I have to admit, I kepting getting indentation errors which bothered me a lot. However, the mistakes transform to experiences, I know I will be more effective by keep coding in Python as I explore its dynamic syntax.

Obviously, this entry is not supposed to be a thesis paper, I had to condensed a lot of great stuff I learned into a page, now I have a great respect for those programmers who keep their weekly or even daily entry as they code along in their life. As a tip of the week, I would say the best way to learn a programming language is just practicing and learn from your mistakes and once you do learn about the correct knowledge, create a text file and record that in your list, I have found that influential in my life. In fine, I've been exposed to Python, Java Scripte, Git as my coding tools. I love my class, I admire my fellow classmmates, they are all inteligent with bright spirits to help one another, I respect my professor and TAs who worked very hard to care about us and make the class meaningful. 
