---
layout: post
title: Week 2 
---
Week two, more stuff have I learned from 373, most of the materials from this week were about Python, a new assignment has been issued for us to accopmlish. Now I realize assignment one was just preparatory for assignment 2. This class is a progressive style for students to improve themselves. Meaning if you don't do well the first class you'll be in a bad situation for later ones, because each one is build upon the previous. 

Many syntax and mechanism I learned about Python, they are just sweet, I will lest just a few cool ones I deemed noteworthy. In one class, professor asked us to devise a simple fractorial algorithm. I was using a simple recursion format:

def factorial(n)
    assert n >= 0
    if n == 0 or n == 1:
        return 1
    else:
        return n * factorial(n-1)
        
However, professor introduced a series of ways to condense the function to more tidy and efficient. The coolest one was probably using "Reduce" method:

def factorial_range_reduce (n) :
    assert n >= 0
    return reduce(mul, range(1, n + 1), 1)

reduce has the format taking three arguments: (Binary function, an iterable list or datastruction, seed)
thereafter the processing is as seed BF list[0] BF list[1] BF list [2]...list[n-1]. Apparently, it's only one line of code but achieve the shortest time. That amazed me. The other one I really enjoyed was the power of Python built-in feature of module math and numpy. By import math and numby, programmer is able to utilize several important operation without trying to write an independent method for them. In class, we tried to calculate Root-mean-square deviation(RMSD), simply saying, squre all the differences, add them up, average them, at last square root for the result. I did a naive way just for safety:

def rmse_range_for (a, p) :
    result = 0
        for i in range(len(a)) :
            result += (a[i] - p[i]) ** 2
    return sqrt(v / len(a))
    
which matched one of professor's given solution, but once again, by utilizing those imported modules, the final one liner was:

def rmse_numpy (a, p) :
    return sqrt(mean(square(subtract(a, p))))
    
I meant, my mind was screaming "WHAT THE HECK??!!". But soon realized, yah this should be the way of programming when you are through of the syntax, these tools are meant to aid us, the implementation thereof must be complicated, but once I know how to use the other methods, these simplified function calls can definitely save a lot space and make the code look readable. Just gotta keep playing with Python if you know what Im' saying :)

Tip of the week: ALWAYS REMEMBER TO MERGE YOUR DEV BRANCH TO MASTER!! Otherwise you'd miss a few files that supposedly be turned in. Professor told me the deducton of points was non-negotiable. I felt sad at the beginning because the file I missed was just a simple output file...however, he inspired me again by asking "now you won't make that mistake right?". I soon replied "yah, definitely sir, thank you." In the real world, if you miss a file before you release a product, the aftermath might be catastrophic, it's a good practice to double check your git status and make sure you have everything before submit them.

Tips o
    
    
